Data Processing User Support Technician II - Kapolei High
Salary
$4,221.00 Monthly

Location 
Job Type
Various, 12-month

Job Number


District / Complex Area


School / Office

Description
Benefits
Questions
Description
This posting is being used to fill various Data Processing User Support Technician II positions at the specified location.

Salary Range:

Data Processing User Support Technician II, SR-15:  $4,221.00 per month

Examples of Duties
Provides training and assistance to users on system equipment, procedures and computer application programs.  Conducts hands-on training in proprietary departmental information systems applications (e.g. Financial Management System, Local School Accounting, Time & Attendance, eSIS, Form 7, Casual Payroll), including the installation and configuring of various applications, configuring network and VPN connections, proper procedures for bringing up  and shutting down the equipment, keyboard operation, logging on and off the various systems, etc.  Prepares training outlines/lesson plans, visual aids, exercises and informational material.  Provides training updates whenever new releases are acquired or existing programs are upgraded.
Troubleshoots both hardware and software computer problems including operating systems, internet, and problems with various applications, such as Microsoft Office, electronic mail, etc.  Assists users when problems occur.  Diagnose causes for interruptions in processing and takes corrective action, as necessary, as defined in operating instructions or based on previous experience.  May consult manuals, vendors or higher-level data processing personnel for assistance.  Determines if a service call should be placed or if the problem should be referred to higher-level data processing personnel.  Documents problems and resolutions for future reference.  Participates in the testing of new software releases, identifies problems and recommends solutions.
Maintains contact with users to monitor effectiveness of the training and  reinforce the training.  Responds to questions from departmental users regarding the capabilities of various software applications and assists them in simplifying the creation and maintenance of proprietary departmental information systems applications by making suggestions as to the operations available within the different software applications to meet specific departmental needs.
Assists users by creating models, worksheets, electronic forms, data files, etc.,  to support specific financial or budgetary and operational requirements of the department; performs rudimentary programming tasks, e.g. to generate ad hoc reports.
 Performs work-site installation and reinstallation of system hardware and software and other PC-supported applications.
Schedules and coordinates training center activities (e.g. training classes, video conferences); orders supplies; maintains inventory and coordinates the maintenance and repair of training center equipment; maintains the various servers in the training center; and keeps track of training center expenditures.
Minimum Qualifications
Basic Education Requirement:  Graduation from high school, with satisfactory completion of courses demonstrating knowledge of English grammar, spelling and punctuation.  Experience which demonstrated knowledge of correct English grammar and usage; the ability to read, comprehend and apply written instructions; and a high degree of verbal skill may be substituted for the required education.  This experience may have been met from part-time and/or unpaid work.  There must, however, be evidence that participation was on a continuous basis but not necessarily on a full-time normal work basis.

Experience Requirements:


General Experience	Specialized Experience	Total Experience
Data Processing User Supp Tech II	2 years*	2 years	4 years
*For the II level, at least one year must have included experience in preparing outlines, visual aids and informational material for group presentations and demonstrated the ability to interact directly with people and speak to and provide technical instructions or information to groups of people.

General Experience:  Work experience which demonstrated the ability to read and understand complex written materials such as rules, procedures or policies; and to write simply and clearly.  

Specialized Experience:  Work experience which demonstrated effective use of personal computers, peripheral equipment (e.g. printers, modems, disk drives, etc.), and a variety of applications (e.g. word processing, electronic mail, spreadsheet, data base management).  Of the required two years of work experience, at least one year must have involved providing assistance and advice to users in resolving hardware and software problems, which included identifying the nature of a variety of problems (i.e. user error, printer error, system/network error) and resolving them based on previous experience, by consulting manuals, consulting with and/or referring problems to  vendors or higher-level data processing personnel.

Substitutions Allowed:
A Bachelor's degree in education or a professional diploma in education from an accredited college or university which provided knowledge of and the ability to prepare outlines, visual aids and informational material for group presentation may be substituted for all of the General Experience.
Successful completion of fifteen semester credits from an accredited college or university may be substituted for six months of General Experience, up to a maximum of one year of experience, but not for the experience which involved preparing training outlines/lesson plans, etc.
A Bachelor's degree in Information and Computer Science from an accredited college or university may be substituted for all of the Specialized Experience.
An Associate in Science Degree in data processing from an accredited college may be substituted for all of the Specialized Experience.
A Certificate of Achievement (30 credits) in data processing from an accredited college may be substituted for one year of the Specialized Experience.
A Certificate of Completion (12 credits) in Data Processing from an accredited college may be substituted for six months of the Specialized Experience but not for the experience which involved providing assistance and advice to users in resolving hardware and software problems.
Quality of Experience: Possession of the required number of years of experience will not in itself be accepted as proof of qualification for a position.  The applicant's overall experience  must have been of such scope and level of responsibility as to conclusively demonstrate that the applicant has the ability to perform the duties of the position for which applicant is being considered.

Lift and Carry Requirement:  Applicants must possess the ability to lift/carry objects weighing up to 40 pounds unassisted.
Supplemental Information
Salary:  The advertised salary is based on full-time employment and includes shortage and school year differentials, if applicable.

Requirements:  Applicants must meet all the requirements for the position they are seeking as of the date of the application, unless otherwise specified.  Unless specifically indicated, the required education and experience may not be gained concurrently.  Calculation of experience is based on full-time, 40-hour workweeks.  Part-time experience is pro-rated.  Example:  Twelve months of experience at 20 hours/week is equivalent to six months of experience, not one year.  Also, hours worked in excess of 40 hours/week will not be credited.  Example:  Twelve months of experience at 60 hours/week is equivalent to one year of experience, not one and a half years.

Temporary Assignment:  Claims of Temporary Assignment (TA) experience to meet the minimum qualification requirements must be verified and attached to the application using one of the options below:

A copy of the applicant’s TA History Report or equivalent system-generated report;

A signed letter from the applicant’s supervisor that includes the applicant’s name, his/her TA job title, the TA start and end dates (from mm/yy to mm/yy), his/her specific TA duties performed, and either the TA hours worked per week or total TA hours worked; or,

Copies of the applicant’s signed SF-10 Forms.



Documents:  Attach all relevant supporting documents to your application.  Documents that were attached to applications submitted before November 16, 2023 do not automatically attach or transfer to applications submitted on and after December 16, 2023.  All submitted documents become the property of the Hawaii State Department of Education.

Information about Temporary Positions:  Temporary positions may be extended year to year, dependent upon funding and departmental needs.  Making yourself available for temporary positions increases your employment possibilities and may lead to permanent opportunities.  A person hired for a temporary position may also become a temporary employee upon satisfactory completion of the initial probation period of at least six months.  Once a temporary employee, you would be eligible to apply for promotion and transfer opportunities to permanent as well as other temporary positions.  You may also enjoy other rights and benefits as afforded to an employee in a permanent position, with the exception of return rights and placement rights associated with a reduction-in-force.      
Equal Opportunity

The Hawaii State Department of Education does not discriminate in its educational policies, programs, and activities on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, national origin, age, and disability in accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and Americans with Disabilities Act of 1991. The Department does not discriminate in its employment policies, programs, and activities on the basis of sexual orientation, arrest and court record, and National Guard participation, as well as on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, national origin, age, and disability, in accordance with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1991, Equal Pay Act of 1963, and Chapter 378, Part I, Hawaii Revised Statutes.

Payday

New employees can expect their first paycheck within the first 3 pay periods of their start date. Payday is on the 5th and 20th (or previous business day) of every month.

Employer
Hawaii State Department of Education
Address
P.O. Box 2360

Honolulu, Hawaii, 96804
Website
https://www.hawaiipublicschools.org
